1. Please describe the environment where you learn the best. 

In regards to Software Engineering, I have learned in a wide variety of environments. I have learned in a large classroom setting, having taken computer science classes at UC Berkeley. I have learned in a smaller classroom setting, having graduated from App Academy bootcamp. However, I think the environment in which I work best is alongside other people while working on a project or task. Over the past few months, I have gained lots of experience pair programming and working in small teams of three or four. These environments provided a framework to ask for help and work together, but it also fostered a culture of trust in having everyone take ownership of their own work. It was a joy learning from peers with different strengths and being given feedback, and it was easy to learn when we could immediately apply a concept or technology to the project we were currently working on. That being said, I have also developed a number of full-stack applications while using and learning different tech stacks, so I am also comfortable learning and researching on my own.

2. What do you think your colleagues and friends would say are your top 3 strengths?

My friends and colleagues would say that my top strength is my intelligence and aptitude for learning. I graduated from UC Berkeley in 3 years with a major and a minor, and I received near-perfect scores on all of the App Academy assessments. I am confident in my ability to learn and understand technically complex topics, whether it be biology, cognitive science, music theory, or especially computer science.

The people close to me would also say I am very adaptable. As a college student, I easily transitioned from studying biology to studying cognitive science. As a software engineer, I have developed numerous full-stack applications while adapting to different tech stacks. As a result, I am confident in being able to quickly adapt to Datavant’s tech stack and start contributing right away.

Lastly, my friends and colleagues would say that I am a strong collaborator and team player. I enjoy working as part of a team in a variety of different settings, whether it be on a sports team, orchestra, laboratory, or class setting. As a software engineer, I have had lots of experience pair programming and working in small teams of three or four. As pleased as I am with the technical progress I have made working on these teams, I am just as pleased with our team chemistry and being able to avoid conflicts while working. I am sure that I could contribute to a positive team chemistry and culture while on the job.

3. What do you think your colleagues and friends would say are your 2-3 areas for development (weaknesses)?

One weakness I have is difficulty delegating responsibility. Especially when there is a task that I feel like I can handle by myself, I am hesitant to assign the task to someone else. At App Academy, there were times when I worked on teams of all unassertive people, and it was up to me to control the workflow of our projects. Doing a better job of delegating responsibility would have made it easier to keep up with a strict timeline. While pair/team projects were always finished on time, I often sacrificed sleep in order to do so. I eventually became more proficient at laying out the workflow and delegating responsibility at the start of a project so that I would not have to do as much later on while working on the project itself.
Another weakness I have is being able to give constructive feedback, out of fear of hurting another person’s feelings. However, at App Academy, we gave our programming pairs feedback at the end of every day, and I realized that feedback can be used to grow as both a programmer as well as a team member. I also realized that my empathy can be used to my advantage to provide thoughtful, productive feedback.

4. Tell me about a time when you failed. What did you learn from that experience?

One of the early projects I worked on was spending a week to build a vanilla Javascript game, and I chose to build a Pokemon Battle Simulator. After a few days of doing nothing except seeding the database, I realized that I chose way too ambitious of a project to complete in one week. I ended up finishing the project (the links to the live site and code are on my resume, portfolio, LinkedIn, and GitHub), but it took three weeks, or three times longer than the time we were allotted. However, because of this failure, I learned to become a much better planner and to spend more time at the beginning of a project outlining the workflow and tasks that need to be completed. As a result, all future projects were finished on time, and there were even teams where I stepped up and provided the organizational workflow for the entire team to follow.